Far out in the sea where the water is very deep, the Sea King ruled the undersea world.
In the deepest spot of the sea was his castle. 
The walls were made of blue coral.  On the roof were shells that opened and closed when the water passed by. 
And that is where the Sea King lived with his mother and four daughters, each one born a year apart.
The youngest of the four princesses was the Little Mermaid. 
She spent much of her time swimming to ships that had fallen to the bottom of the sea.  
The ships held treasures from the world above! She would fill her arms and set up her collection here and there. 
All the while she would sing. As she did, fish circled around to hear her. For the Little Mermaid’s voice was the most beautiful.
The girls knew that when they turned 15, they could swim up to the surface for the first time. 
It would be a long time that the Little Mermaid had to wait, as she was the youngest! 
So she made her grandmother tell her all about life up on land. 
Tales about ships and towns, and every bit of stories about humans that she knew.  
Soon the eldest sister turned 15.  She was the first to be allowed to rise up to the surface.  
When she came back, she had many wonders to tell her sisters about!  She told about resting on soft white sand. 
High above was a deep blue sky with puffy white clouds.  Later the sun set, she said, and the whole sky turned gold and red. 
She had watched the birds fly high above her, dipping and making turns in the red and gold sky.
When the next sister turned 15, it was winter.
She told of icebergs floating in the sea and shining bright. All the ships stayed far away from the icebergs, she said, as if in fear. 
But the icebergs did not seem lonely.  They were like friends, floating close to each other. 
When it was the third sister’s turn, she told about moving as close as she could to the gate of a town. 
She heard people call out, horses that went clip, clopping down the street. And even music that she had never heard before. 
All this the Little Mermaid heard with wonder.  It wasn’t fair that she had to wait the longest!  
At last the day came when she turned 15, too. Now she could rise up over the surface and see for herself.  
When she came up over the water, the Little Mermaid was next to a large ship. On the ship beautiful music was playing.  
Sailors were dancing on the deck. They were laughing and having a fine time. It must be a party! 
Now and then as the waves lifted up the Little Mermaid, she could see better.  A handsome young man stepped out on the deck. 
When he did, a hundred rockets rose in the air. The party was for him. Was it his birthday? She swam closer. 
The men all seemed to like that young man.  When he spoke, the sailors would laugh. Sometimes they patted him on his back in joy. Once that made his crown fall off. The men laughed and picked it up. “A crown,” said the Little Mermaid.  “He must be a prince.”
Suddenly, it became very dark and the wind picked up.  The sailors started to run about on deck.  They pulled down the sail.
The ship dipped and swooped.  It rolled side to side, and up and down on the high waves.
Then lightning.  Thunder.  A strong rainstorm hit.  The poor ship started to tip on the rough waves!  
It was so dark that the Little Mermaid could see nothing.  Then lightning lit up the sky, and she could see the young prince.  
He seemed to be the only one still there! He was working hard to keep the ship afloat.  
He was throwing ropes out to his men who had jumped. But then, the waves got high and the ship started to tip over.  
The Prince was flung to the side of the ship and thrown overboard! Down into the sea he fell.
He dropped very fast.  What was the Little Mermaid to do?  She knew that human beings cannot live under the water. 
She dove deep and fast.  She reached out and was able to grab his shirt. Then she swam up to the surface as fast as she could. 
 At last she could pull his head above the water. There the two of them floated as the waves rose and fell.  
By morning, the storm had passed. Yet the prince was as still as he had been all night. From far off the she saw tops of hills.  
She swam to the shore, pulling him behind her.  It was not easy to pull the young man up onto dry sand, but she did it.  
Was he dead? She sang a sad song. All of a sudden, the prince started to move.  “Oh! Are you all right?” she asked.



